Introduction  
Configuration Console Reference Guide  | 7 Introduction  
Landmark  Pattern Language (LPL) for Configurations  
What Is the Configuration Console?  
The Conf iguration Console is a tool in the Infor Rich C lient that enables administrators to make 
several types of changes that affect Landmark applications and users.  
Application   Look -and-feel changes to menus, pages, and various user interface objects and 
actions associated with a business class, and config uration changes for features that apply  across a 
data area, including  
enabling and disabling data translation (multi -language field configuration)  
creating business subjects, and 
creating and modifying MIME types . 
Security   Creation and m odification of sec urity classes  
You can also use the Configuration Console for the maintenance of actor, identity, and role records.  
Web Services   Creation of new web services 
Web services enable non -Landmark systems to view or update Landmark data.  
When you make configurat ion changes through the Configuration Console, the changes apply 
across the application and to all users.  
Configuration Console Development Process and the Landmark  Pattern 
Language  
The La ndmark Pattern Language  (LPL)  is the language that many of the sourc e files in Landmark 
applications are written in, such as those for business classes and user interface objects. The 
Configuration Console user interface allows manipulation of an application’s LPL.  The application 
LPL source file integrity is fully protect ed by the Configuration Console; the LPL source file is not 
modified by the console, rather a copy of the LPL source file is created and stored to a database 
table as a configuration. At application execution time,  this configuration is brought into memory  as 
an overlay of the base source file and is executed in  place  of the original LPL source file. The key 
point is that configurations are dynamic and take effect in real time, therefore please use caution  if 
using the Configuration Console  on a production instance of an application.  

When creating configurations with the Configuration Console, it is best to do so in a provisional or 
test scenario before making the configurations available to all users. If you make the configuration 
changes directly to a produ ction environment, the changes are  applied as soon as you save them in 
the Configuration Console.  
Generally, you should use the Configuration Console user interface to add, delete, and modify 
configurations. However, it can be useful to view the LPL in th e Configuration Console to better 
understand possible configuration changes . For example, you might want to view the LPL for your 
configuration and then compare  it to the original LPL.  
The LPL is exposed through Edit LPL buttons and view base LPL  links. If  you view LPL in the 
Configuration Console, you can use Ctrl+F  to open a search box at the bottom of the LPL pane to 
search through the LPL text.  
Edit LPL button in the Configuration Console  
Although rare, it might  be useful to manipulate a configuration ’s LPL manually using the Edit LPL 
pane. The remainder of this document serves as a reference guide for understanding the LPL.  
IMPORTANT:   Manually modifying the LPL is at your own risk . These m anual modificati ons are not 
supported by Infor.  
You have a sel ection of  tools to help you identify configuration issues. These are in addition to any 
error messages that you see while  working on a configuration in the Configuration Console. These 
tools can help you identify invalid configurations, locate specific err ors within configurations, and 
compare different versions of a configuration to better understand what might  be causing a problem.  
Verify Configurations ( cdverify ) utility  
Use t he utility to  quickly list invalid configurations and show any s yntax errors i n 
configurations.  
 
The Configuration Console includes tools for comparing configurations, locating invalid 
syntax, and iden tifying invalid configurations.  
Configuration business class forms The Data menu in the Infor Rich Client  lets you view a list of configurations of a single type, 
and then identify invalid ones of that type and compare any two versions of the configuration.  
Please refer  to the Landmark documentation Infor Landmark Technology User Interface Guides  for 
detailed inform ation on using the Configuration Console.  